# Part 4. Appendix

## Appendix 1. Programming environment
### 4.1.1 How to build
 
#### wolfSSL library

./configure --enable-all CFLAGS = "-DWOLFSSL_AESGCM_STREAM"

./configure --enable-maxfragment --enable-alpn --enable-opensslall --enable-sni --enable-psk --enable-earlydata

#### Sample program




### 4.1.2 Debugging Tools

#### 1) Debug messages

wolfSSL provides an option to output the internal debug log to standard error output. You must have wolfSSL built with the DEBUG_WOLFSSL macro or the --enable-degub option for this feature to take effect. In addition, the following functions are called from within the program at runtime to allow output. You can also stop the log output by calling wolfSSL_Debugging_OFF () if you want to stop the log output in the program.
<br> <br>
```
wolfSSL_Debugging_ON ();
```
<br>

Debug messages are printed to standard error by default. If you want to output to standard output, specify WOLFSSL_LOG_PRINTF in the configuration option.

Also, if you want to output to a specially secured memory buffer when you cannot output a message to a terminal etc. in an embedded environment, or if you want to add a unique header or output in a unique format, define a user-specific output function. Can be used. In that case, define the name of your own function with the macro name WOLFSSL_USER_LOG. This function accepts the message to be output as a string argument.

#define WOLFSSL_USER_LOG myPrint

int myPrint (char * msg);


#### 2) Decrypting TLS records
It was
TLS messages can be acquired and analyzed as network packets using a packet capture app such as WireShark, but the contents of the TLS packet are encrypted. TLS libraries such as OpenSSL and wolfSSL provide a means to output the information required for packet decryption as a file. By setting this file in the packet capture app, you can decode and display the packet. The packets to be decrypted include not only TLS handshake packets, but also post-handshake application data.
<br>
2-1) Build wolfSSL

Rebuild with the following addition of special options for using wolfSSL's KeyLog file feature: When you're done using it, switch back to normal options and rebuild to restore. For your safety, this feature should not be used normally.

```
$ ./configure ... normal options ... CFLAGS = -DHAVE_SECRET_CALLBACK
$ make

```

2-2) KeyLog file path definition <br>
If you use a KeyLog file, add the following two lines near the beginning of your application.
<br> <br>

```
#define SSLKEYLOGFILE "./MyKeyLog.txt"
#include "example_common.h"
```
<br>

The Keylog callback function is already implemented in example_common.h (see Examples / include / example_common.h). The #define above just before the include statement enables the Keylog callback function.
<br>

2-3) Registration of KeyLog callback function

In the program, register the enabled KeyLog callback function as follows.
<br> <br>

```
SSL_CTX_set_keylog_callback (ctx, MyKeyLog_cb);
```
<br>

A KeyLog file is created and the contents are added as the program is executed. Therefore, the file will continue to grow as it is, so either truncate the contents of the file or delete the file as appropriate.
<br>

2-4) Registering the KeyLog file with WireShark

After starting WireShark, follow "Edit"> "Settings"> Protocols ">" TLS "on the menu bar to display the" Transport Layer Security "setting screen. At the bottom of this screen," (Pre) -Master. -Secret log filename "
There is a setting field. Press the "Browse ..." button and specify the KeyLog file mentioned above.

2-4) Data decryption and display

Handshakes and alert messages are decrypted by default in the packet summary pane and the individual packet view pane. On the other hand, the application data will be confirmed in hexadecimal and ASCII display displayed in the bottom pane. Note that there are "Frame" and "Decrypted TLS" tabs further down that pane. By default, the "Frame" tab is selected so the encrypted data is displayed. Select the "Decrypted TLS" tab to view the decrypted application data.

<br> <br> <br>


#### 3) Heap usage

wolfSSL has an option to measure / display heap memory usage. Enable the WOLFSSL_TRACK_MEMORY macro to use this feature. If this macro is enabled, the measurement will start automatically when the application is executed. The following information is output when the user program ends. The display contents show the number of memory allocations from the heap, the number of releases, the total number of bytes allocated, the number of bytes used at the peak, and the number of bytes currently in use. If there is a memory leak, there will be a difference between the number of allocations and the number of releases, and the number of bytes in use will be a non-zero value.


    total Allocs = 4299
    total Deallocs = 4298
    total Bytes = 376059
    peak Bytes = 25213
    current Bytes = 256

The above is an example of heap usage output when the client of the sample program is executed. In this example, the program is terminated without intentionally freeing the 256 bytes allocated from the heap.
It is reported that the difference between the number of allocations and the number of releases is 1 and the number of bytes in use is 256. You can also see that the total number of bytes at the peak of the heap memory is 25213 bytes. This value can be used as a guide for setting heap usage on embedded devices.
<br> <br>


#### 4) Test certificate, key
It was
    How to use the files under certs
    How to use test_certs.h